---
short-description: Getting help with GLib
title: Mailing lists and bug reports
...

# Filing a bug report or feature request

If you encounter a bug, misfeature, or missing feature in GLib, please
file a bug report on <http://bugzilla.gnome.org>. We'd also appreciate
reports of incomplete or misleading information in the GLib
documentation; file those against the "docs" component of the "glib"
product in Bugzilla.

Don't hesitate to file a bug report, even if you think we may know about
it already, or aren't sure of the details. Just give us as much
information as you have, and if it's already fixed or has already been
discussed, we'll add a note to that effect in the report.

The bug tracker should definitely be used for feature requests, it's not
only for bugs. We track all GLib development in Bugzilla, so it's the
way to be sure the GLib developers won't forget about an issue.

# Submitting Patches

If you develop a bugfix or enhancement for GLib, please file that in
Bugzilla as well. Bugzilla allows you to attach files; please attach a
patch generated by the `diff` utility, using the `-u` option to make the
patch more readable. All patches must be offered under the terms of the
GNU LGPL license, so be sure you are authorized to give us the patch
under those terms.

If you want to discuss your patch before or after developing it, mail
<gtk-devel-list@gnome.org>. But be sure to file the Bugzilla report as
well; if the patch is only on the list and not in Bugzilla, it's likely
to slip through the cracks.

# Mailing lists

There are several mailing lists dedicated to GTK+ and related libraries.
Discussion of GLib generally takes place on these lists. You can
subscribe or view the archives of these lists on
<http://mail.gnome.org>.

  - <gtk-list@gnome.org>  
    gtk-list covers general GTK+ (and GLib) topics; questions about
    using GLib in programs, GLib from a user standpoint, announcements
    of GLib-related projects would all be on-topic. The bulk of the
    traffic consists of GTK+ programming questions.

  - <gtk-devel-list@gnome.org>  
    gtk-devel-list is for discussion of work on GTK+ (and GLib) itself,
    it is *not* for asking questions about how to use GTK+ (or GLib) in
    applications. gtk-devel-list is appropriate for discussion of
    patches, bugs, proposed features, and so on.

  - <gtk-doc-list@gnome.org>  
    gtk-doc-list is for discussion of the gtk-doc documentation system
    (used to document GTK+ and Glib), and for work on the GTK+ (and
    GLib) documentation.
